docs/hcp-managed-k8s-collector-deployment.md, before:

# Collect Envoy Metrics in an HCP Managed or Linked Consul Kubernetes Cluster

Follow these instructions to add Envoy metric collection to an existing Consul service mesh.

## Requirements

- Consul version `>= 1.15.3` running in a Kubernetes cluster
- Consul linked to [HCP's Consul Management Plane](https://developer.hashicorp.com/hcp/docs/consul/usage/management-plane)
- [consul-k8s](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/installation/install-cli#install-the-cli) version `>= 1.1.2` OR the [Consul Helm chart](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/installation/install#install-consul-on-kubernetes-with-helm)

## Step 0: Upgrading a `consul-k8s` Deployed Datacenter

If you used the `-preset cloud` of `consul-k8s` to deploy Consul:
1. [download](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/installation/install-cli#install-the-cli) `consul-k8s` version `>= 1.1.2`
1. run `consul-k8s -preset cloud upgrade` to update to the latest version of Consul and enable the Consul Telemetry Collector
1. skip to [Step 2: Configure Service Intentions](#step-2-configure-service-intentions)

## Step 1: Deploy Consul Telemetry Collector

If your cluster is HashiCorp-managed, first export your client ID, client secret, and HCP resource ID, and then create secrets to authenticate with HCP:

```bash
export HCP_CLIENT_ID=""
export HCP_CLIENT_SECRET=""
export HCP_RESOURCE_ID=""
```

```bash
kubectl create secret generic consul-hcp-client-id --from-literal=client-id=$HCP_CLIENT_ID --namespace consul

kubectl create secret generic consul-hcp-client-secret --from-literal=client-secret=$HCP_CLIENT_SECRET --namespace consul

kubectl create secret generic consul-hcp-resource-id --from-literal=resource-id=$HCP_RESOURCE_ID --namespace consul
```

Retrieve the current Helm values from Kubernetes using the `consul-k8s status` command or `helm get values consul` and write them to a file, for example `values.yaml`. The configuration file below is an example and yours may have additional settings:

```bash
connectInject:
  enabled: true
controller:
  enabled: true
global:
  cloud:
    enabled: true
    clientId:
      secretKey: client-id
      secretName: consul-hcp-client-id
    clientSecret:
      secretKey: client-secret
      secretName: consul-hcp-client-secret
  acls:
    manageSystemACLs: true
  datacenter: mesh-metrics
  name: consul
  tls:
    enableAutoEncrypt: true
    enabled: true
server:
  affinity: null
  replicas: 3
```

Add the following settings to the helm `values.yaml` file to enable the Consul Telemetry Collector deployment:

```diff
  connectInject:
    enabled: true
  controller:
    enabled: true
  global:
+   metrics:
+     enableTelemetryCollector: true
    cloud:
      enabled: true
      clientId:
        secretKey: client-id
        secretName: consul-hcp-client-id
      clientSecret:
        secretKey: client-secret
        secretName: consul-hcp-client-secret
    acls:
      manageSystemACLs: true
    datacenter: mesh-metrics
    name: consul
    tls:
      enableAutoEncrypt: true
      enabled: true
  server:
    affinity: null
    replicas: 3
+ telemetryCollector:
+    enabled: true
```

Apply the new configuration:

```bash
# if using consul-k8s
consul-k8s upgrade -f values.yaml

# if using helm
helm upgrade consul hashicorp/consul --namespace consul --values values.yaml
```

## Step 2: Configure Service Intentions

You will need to authorize communication to the Consul Telemetry Collector from Envoy proxies with a [`ServiceIntention`](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions):

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply --namespace consul --filename -
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceIntentions
metadata:
  name: consul-telemetry-collector
spec:
  destination:
    name: consul-telemetry-collector
  sources:
  - action: allow
    name: '*'
EOF
```

You can modify the `--namespace` flag with the [`namespace`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) your Consul datacenter is in, if it differs.

## Step 3: (Optional) Forward to Another OTEL Collector

To consume these metrics in [another OTLP-compatible collector or back end](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/sdk-configuration/otlp-exporter-configuration/#otel_exporter_otlp_metrics_endpoint), configure the Consul Telemetry Collector with the `telemetryCollector.customExportConfig` setting:

```yaml
...
telemetryCollector:
  enabled: true
  customExporterConfig: |
      {"http_collector_endpoint": "otel-collector:4187"}
```

Commit message:

docs: add section to collector deployment docs about restarting pods after upgrade

docs/hcp-managed-k8s-collector-deployment.md, after:

# Collect Envoy Metrics in an HCP Managed or Linked Consul Kubernetes Cluster

Follow these instructions to add Envoy metric collection to an existing Consul service mesh.

## Requirements

- Consul version `>= 1.15.3` running in a Kubernetes cluster
- Consul linked to [HCP's Consul Management Plane](https://developer.hashicorp.com/hcp/docs/consul/usage/management-plane)
- [consul-k8s](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/installation/install-cli#install-the-cli) version `>= 1.1.2` OR the [Consul Helm chart](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/installation/install#install-consul-on-kubernetes-with-helm)

## Step 0: Upgrading a `consul-k8s` Deployed Datacenter

If you used the `-preset cloud` of `consul-k8s` to deploy Consul:
1. [download](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/installation/install-cli#install-the-cli) `consul-k8s` version `>= 1.1.2`
1. run `consul-k8s -preset cloud upgrade` to update to the latest version of Consul and enable the Consul Telemetry Collector
1. skip to [Step 2: Configure Service Intentions](#step-2-configure-service-intentions)

## Step 1: Deploy Consul Telemetry Collector

If your cluster is HashiCorp-managed, first export your client ID, client secret, and HCP resource ID, and then create secrets to authenticate with HCP:

```bash
export HCP_CLIENT_ID=""
export HCP_CLIENT_SECRET=""
export HCP_RESOURCE_ID=""
```

```bash
kubectl create secret generic consul-hcp-client-id --from-literal=client-id=$HCP_CLIENT_ID --namespace consul

kubectl create secret generic consul-hcp-client-secret --from-literal=client-secret=$HCP_CLIENT_SECRET --namespace consul

kubectl create secret generic consul-hcp-resource-id --from-literal=resource-id=$HCP_RESOURCE_ID --namespace consul
```

Retrieve the current Helm values from Kubernetes using the `consul-k8s status` command or `helm get values consul` and write them to a file, for example `values.yaml`. The configuration file below is an example and yours may have additional settings:

```bash
connectInject:
  enabled: true
controller:
  enabled: true
global:
  cloud:
    enabled: true
    clientId:
      secretKey: client-id
      secretName: consul-hcp-client-id
    clientSecret:
      secretKey: client-secret
      secretName: consul-hcp-client-secret
  acls:
    manageSystemACLs: true
  datacenter: mesh-metrics
  name: consul
  tls:
    enableAutoEncrypt: true
    enabled: true
server:
  affinity: null
  replicas: 3
```

Add the following settings to the helm `values.yaml` file to enable the Consul Telemetry Collector deployment:

```diff
  connectInject:
    enabled: true
  controller:
    enabled: true
  global:
+   metrics:
+     enableTelemetryCollector: true
    cloud:
      enabled: true
      clientId:
        secretKey: client-id
        secretName: consul-hcp-client-id
      clientSecret:
        secretKey: client-secret
        secretName: consul-hcp-client-secret
    acls:
      manageSystemACLs: true
    datacenter: mesh-metrics
    name: consul
    tls:
      enableAutoEncrypt: true
      enabled: true
  server:
    affinity: null
    replicas: 3
+ telemetryCollector:
+    enabled: true
```

Apply the new configuration:

```bash
# if using consul-k8s
consul-k8s upgrade -f values.yaml

# if using helm
helm upgrade consul hashicorp/consul --namespace consul --values values.yaml
```

## Step 2: Configure Service Intentions

You will need to authorize communication to the Consul Telemetry Collector from Envoy proxies with a [`ServiceIntention`](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions):

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply --namespace consul --filename -
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceIntentions
metadata:
  name: consul-telemetry-collector
spec:
  destination:
    name: consul-telemetry-collector
  sources:
  - action: allow
    name: '*'
EOF
```

You can modify the `--namespace` flag with the [`namespace`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) your Consul datacenter is in, if it differs.

## Step 3: Restart Pods After Consul Version Upgrade

If you have upgraded your cluster's Consul version from a version less than 1.15.3 to a version at or greater than 1.15.3, you must restart your service(s) pods to allow Envoy to start sending metrics for those services to the telemetry collector.

## Step 4: (Optional) Forward to Another OTEL Collector

To consume these metrics in [another OTLP-compatible collector or back end](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/sdk-configuration/otlp-exporter-configuration/#otel_exporter_otlp_metrics_endpoint), configure the Consul Telemetry Collector with the `telemetryCollector.customExportConfig` setting:

```yaml
...
telemetryCollector:
  enabled: true
  customExporterConfig: |
      {"http_collector_endpoint": "otel-collector:4187"}
```
